---
date: 2012-10-17 01:07:30+00:00
layout: post
slug: rails-rumble-2012
title: Rails Rumble 2012
categories:
- Code
- Design
---

It was my extreme pleasure to take part in this year's [Rails Rumble](http://railsrumble.com/entries/340-all-these-images). Despite my lack of Rails experience, my friends [Jason](http://ambethia.com/), [Tyler](http://tylerjohnst.github.com/) and [James](http://flickr.com/dedguy) invited me to help them develop [All These Images!](http://alltheseimages.com/), an application that helps you collect images and position them in a moodboard.

It was a fantastic experience, and I learned so much over the 48 hours we were allowed in the competition, but it was super-stressful because I only had a couple weeks to learn a lot of new things:



	
  * Basic Ruby on Rails (duh)

	
  * CoffeeScript

	
  * Backbone

	
  * Sass

	
  * Haml

	
  * Bootstrap


I spent so many nights hunkered down in front of [CodeSchool](http://www.codeschool.com/) for crash courses on those first four but could have easily used another month or two just to feel comfortable. As it was, I didn't get to even glance at the documentation for Haml until the night before the Rumble and wasn't able to checkout Bootstrap until I had to actually use it. (I've used 960grid and Skeleton, so CSS frameworks aren't completely foreign to me.)

Fortunately, Tyler is a total Backbone wizard so I didn't have to touch a line of it, but I had to muddle my way through everything else. Experience in C#/ASP.NET meant dick in Rails, and my knowledge of JavaScript only mapped to CoffeScript for the simplest of functions. I had to rely on a JS->CoffeeScript translator for all my conditional syntax as well as passing parameters into functions.

And, God help me, my Sublime Text kept defaulting back to tabbed indentation.

I was fine with Haml until I actually needed to write out an element. _<a href class="style">Link</a>_ is _%a.style{:href => ""} Link_?

Yeah, I had to find another translator. Of all the new things I had to work with, I liked Haml the least. I don't really understand the need for it -- it's far more error prone and its only slightly less verbose than the HTML it abstracts. It's great for basic layout elements and I'm sure I could get used to it, but it seems like a bad way to manage content.

Sass was a different story --  I had to refer to documentation to do the CSS animation mixins for the splash page and the modal dialogues, and I wanted to pop my semi-colon out of the keyboard so I'd stop using it on accident, but Sass was mostly a piece of cake. I liked Sass a lot -- I don't get to use a preprocessor at my day job and I was totally spoiled by it.

I don't know how well we'll place in the competition, and I don't especially care -- I'm just really grateful that I got to participate. Jason and Tyler are mind-blowingly good developers and extremely patient instructors -- they always answered my questions with enthusiasm and never let on that I was slow to complete tasks. Jason never gave me shit about all my link_to and asset pipeline questions, and Tyler didn't make me feel like an asshole when he helped me fix an app-slowing scope issue in one of my CoffeeScript files.

To add to my humility and awe, James cranked out some of the most incredible illustrations and copy for the application. I really think [All These Images!](http://alltheseimages.com/) has a ton of charm and character, and all of it either came directly from James or was inspired by his art direction.

It was completely exhausting, I totally missed my wife and daughter, and I could barely wait for everyone to leave my house, but I had a fantastic weekend and learned a lot in the process -- I'm looking forward to Rails Rumble 2013.
